[NARRATOR]
Make the fire...
Nightfall is coming.
Light the fire...
Darkness is coming.
Hide the fire...
...or the flames of the dead...
...will possess it.
[YAHAGI]
That fire...
[YAHAGI gasps]
[YAHAGI]
No! Stay away from that fire!
[YAHAGI gasps]
[panting]
[chokes, coughs]
[pants]
What is this?
My punishment?
[YAHAGI]
Was I wrong?
Was I just being arrogant?
Maybe I should have
done as he suggested.
Or maybe it was hopeless
from the beginning.
[footsteps]
Looks like I'm getting close.
[GINKO]
Hey!
I've heard that a mushi master
lives in this village.
Is that true?
What's he mean?
I bet he's talking about Yahagi.
She's down in the fields
with Dad and the others.
A bunch of weird weeds
that no one has ever seen
before started growing there.
They're killing the trees
on the mountain.
[VILLAGER A]
It's decided then.
We'll split up and cut down all
the trees around the village.
[VILLAGER B]
Right.
[NAO]
Yahagi!
You two again?!
Didn't I tell you
not to come here?
[gasps]
What happened here?
[NAO groans]
We brought you a visitor!
You did?
[gasps]
Stay away from that weed!
[GINKO]
Interesting...
If it was just one plant,
you wouldn't notice it.
But with so many...
This thing's obviously a mushi;
there's no way to miss it.
You're not a...
mushi master, are you?
Yes, my name is Ginko.
I heard a new species
had been identified.
I thought I'd do
a little research.
[YAHAGI]
You're too late.
The research is done;
it's time to act.
[splashing]
[NAO]
Ow!
--[MIKU laughing]
--Stop squirming!
--It stings!
--[MIKU laughing]
--It's fine, okay?
[GINKO] I thought I
recognized your name.
I've read several
of your papers.
Your work is quite impressive.
I really mean it.
But I have to admit...
I didn't expect you
to be a young woman.
Thanks, I think.
Anyway... I'm very interested
in your new findings.
Do you think I could see them?
[YAHAGI]
They're still incomplete.
Incomplete? But you said
your research was done.
[YAHAGI] There's no need, nor is
there time for further research.
Tomorrow...
...we're going to burn the
entire surface of the mountain.
--[MIKU] Huh?
--What?
You're joking!
The whole mountain?
That's right.
[NAO] But why? It's only
the weed that's bad.
[YAHAGI]
It's the only thing we can do.
[MIKU] Will the animals
on the mountain die?
[YAHAGI]
We're chasing them away
and doing whatever we can to
prevent them from being harmed.
--Wait, but--
--[YAHAGI] Listen.
We must do this
to stop that weed.
Otherwise... everyone in the
village could be in danger next.
Please, try to understand.
We must.
It's our only chance
to save ourselves.
[GINKO]
I wonder...
Are you absolutely sure
there's no other way?
[YAHAGI]
Yes... I'm sure.
We're running out of time.
I might be able to help
if I knew more about this.
Why don't you tell me
what's been going on?
All right.
[YAHAGI]
It started two months ago.
We were clearing a field,
getting ready for
the spring planting.
[YAHAGI]
While working,
we turned up a
giant black boulder.
We're near an old volcano,
so there's a great deal of
volcanic rock in the area.
We dug it up and dumped it
in a corner of the field.
[YAHAGI]
The next day...
Someone noticed a weed growing
out of a crack in the boulder.
But no one thought
anything about it.
[YAHAGI]
Three days later...
...after a heavy rainstorm...
...we found that the field
was overrun by weeds.
[YAHAGI] They all seemed
to be connected at the root.
No matter how much we'd
cut at them or pull at them,
they'd grow back immediately.
[YAHAGI] By the time I realized
it was something unnatural...
...it was too late.
Their blossoms released a poison
that withered the
surrounding plants.
[YAHAGI]
Nothing affects their vitality.
Every effort to exterminate
them... has failed.
They've completely
overrun the mountainside.
And now, they're growing
towards the village.
[GINKO]
Even so...
You're taking a big risk by
burning the whole mountain.
Plus, it's an unknown mushi.
Who knows how fire
will affect it?
Gather all the people you can.
Get them out of
the village quickly.
We need to learn more
about this mushi.
So you think that we should just
give up and let the crops die?
The village won't survive
the winter that way!
Everyone's life is at stake!
I understand that, but we
can't afford to be hasty.
You're saying that we should
simply accept a few casualties?
I'm saying...
We shouldn't gamble
with people's lives
without more knowledge.
[YAHAGI]
Point taken.
But... this is no time for us
to have a scholarly debate.
Not now. The villagers
are close to panicking.
[GINKO]
And what about you?
I know it's frustrating
not being able to
identify that mushi.
But you can't give in to fear.
I grew up here.
These people are
depending on me.
And I'll do whatever it takes...
...to protect them.
[YAHAGI] You're welcome
to take the report.
Maybe you can be of help
in my next investigation.
But now... just go
and leave us alone.
[thumping]
[rustling]
[NAO]
Aww... there goes the big oak!
The cherry tree's gone, too!
[GINKO]
Hey!
You've got to stop this.
And who are you?
I know you want to
protect your village,
but are you sure
you're not destroying
more than you're saving?
Think about it.
I'm begging you to reconsider.
Look, Mister, no one's happy
about destroying the forest.
We must.
If we don't, we and
our families might die.
[VILLAGER D] You're that other
mushi master, aren't you?
We already have a great master
right here in the village.
What would an outsider
know about us?
I'll tell you what I know.
You're acting like a pack of
frightened monkeys, not men.
[VILLAGER C gasps]
[GINKO]
Running around wildly...
Blindly lashing out...
Bastard! How dare you!
Face your fear like
rational men...
...instead of burning
it like a mob.
We are facing it.
That's what people have always
used fire for, isn't it?
We should use our
intelligence to fight this.
Isn't that how we mastered
fire? With intelligence?
Very glib.
But you know what
I'm talking about.
Didn't I tell you to leave?
We don't need you.
[VILLAGER D]
Leave us alone!
[VILLAGER C]
Come on!
[YAHAGI]
All right, everyone...
Please, calm down and listen.
I found the weed at
the edge of the village.
[VILLAGERS gasp]
Let's finish with the trees...
...and set the mountain
on fire by nightfall.
[GINKO groans]
Ow...
Well that...
could've gone better.
[GINKO]
No doubt about it...
She's good.
She must hate having to burn
it before we can learn more.
[GINKO] No one's going
to listen to me.
She's the only one who
can put a stop to this.
[GINKO]
Maybe...
[thud]
[crack]
[crash]
[GINKO grunts]
This is wrong; I can feel it.
That mushi was inside
of a volcanic rock.
Setting it on fire is
just asking for trouble.
Set the fires.
[footsteps]
[GINKO panting]
[gasps]
It's done. Now, we'll survive.
Maybe.
[VILLAGER F]
But we destroyed everything.
[crack]
[gasps]
[cracking continues]
[YAHAGI]
That noise... What is it?
[cracking continues]
Over there! Look!
What are those things?
[GINKO gasps]
[GINKO]
Those flames...
They're kagebi!
All of you! Quick! Go home!
Keep the fires away
from the homes--!
[GINKO]
Hey!
Cover your pots and containers!
Hurry and tell your neighbors!
Do it quickly, before those
fireballs have a chance to nest!
[YAHAGI]
Do as he says! Hurry!
Everyone, listen carefully.
That thing looks like fire,
but it's actually called
a kagebi-- a shadow fire.
It usually only appears
on cold and rainy days.
It sucks the body heat from
those who get too near,
thinking it a real fire.
On warm days, it likes
to lurk in narrow spaces,
like pots or hollow trees.
Most of these have
probably nested already.
Possibly even somewhere
near your homes.
From now on...
Be careful when you
approach any fire.
You could end up freezing
to death before you know it,
just by trying to get warm.
You tell us be careful...
but what should we look for?
A fire that seems to
be only lukewarm...
...is bound to be a kagebi.
Hidden inside these things
is a mushi called a hidane.
This mushi is the true form
of these ghostly flames.
It thrives by absorbing heat.
But everything will be fine.
All we have to do is take care.
No one is going to
get hurt, all right?
[GINKO] Things have gotten
out of hand, haven't they?
Who knew that weed would
turn out to be hidane larva?
[YAHAGI]
Still, we can deal with hidane.
I'm familiar with
all the literature.
It's a shame it
wasn't a new species.
But at least we identified
an unknown larval stage.
That's a nice lecture.
Don't take your
frustrations out on me.
Kagebi can be very persistent.
And no one else in the village
can deal with them but you.
If things here should
start to get out of hand,
send a letter to this address.
And I'll come.
It's payment for
reading your report.
Don't take on too
much by yourself.
[coughs]
[VILLAGER I shudders]
I'm freezing...
Time for fire.
Damn it! Too damp...
Huh...?
Must be embers
from the burning.
Thank goodness.
[MOTHER B shudders]
Sure is chilly today.
The room just won't
get warm at all.
[YAHAGI] It looks like the weeds
have been exterminated.
They probably won't
sprout up again.
Now for the kagebi...
[gasps]
Yahagi! My baby is so cold!
[VILLAGER L]
So's my grandfather!
[VILLAGER M]
The people next door are, too!
[YAHAGI chokes, coughs]
[VILLAGERS gasp]
[coughing continues]
[VILLAGER K]
Yahagi...?
[footsteps]
Then what?
Seven people... died outright.
Others have suffered
internal frostbite...
...after eating food cooked
by the heat of a kagebi.
I thought...
I'd warned them enough.
I was wrong.
And how are things now?
It's starting to get better.
Those who have frostbite
should recover
if they're careful and rest.
The villagers are finally
beginning to pay attention
and be cautious... so we're
having fewer casualties.
[GINKO]
And the kagebi?
When you crush the hidane
inside, they disappear.
We should be rid of most
of them by this time.
[GINKO]
So it's like the writings say.
Kill the mushi and
the fire disappears.
Why am I here?
Because...
I've discovered a life stage
not in the writings.
Those weeds we found
in the rock that day
sprout from the corpses
of those who died...
...from having their
body heat drained away.
[GINKO gasps]
Is that the problem you called
me back here to help you with?
Oh, no. I can take
care of that myself.
Then what is it?
You see... I'm going to have
to leave the village soon.
[YAHAGI]
When we burned the mountain...
...I inhaled a kagebi.
The body is just a type
of container... isn't it?
It's been there all along,
sapping my body heat.
It felt as if I was
freezing... slowly...
Now I'm coughing up weeds.
So you see...
I'm punished for my foolishness.
The hidane have taken
root in my stomach...
They're beginning to sprout.
[YAHAGI] I've started to
cough up poison as well.
I've already told everyone
I don't have much time left.
[YAHAGI] I plan to leave soon
and go as far away as possible
before my body is consumed.
Before that, I must ask--
Will you take over here?
With you in charge...
I won't ever have to worry
about something like
this happening again.
I can't.
If it had been my
responsibility...
...I don't know if I would
have acted differently.
But this battle you started
is going to continue
for years to come.
You can't give up on it now and
leave it for your successors.
[GINKO]
I've got an idea
I've been thinking
about for some time.
Let me give it a try.
You're gonna catch a kagebi?
Then what? You'll save Yahagi?
We'll see.
Hey, look!
[YAHAGI]
What do you plan to do?
[GINKO] The hidane are a cunning
piece of evolution, aren't they?
It's clever.
First, they emit a poison
that kills everything...
which forces human beings
to set them on fire.
Once aflame, they mature,
take the fire's shape,
and lure people in to
steal their body heat.
Do you see the irony?
Man, the only animal that
uses fire, is used by fire.
But still... the hidane
are only false fire.
What will happen to the larva if
we set this false fire on them?
So you think...
To kill it when it's
in its weed form...
...you just burn it with kagebi.
Food cooked with kagebi...
...will probably have
the same effect.
But won't it burn me?
The frostbite?
No kidding! I ate some
of that stuff before
and it felt like my guts
were gonna burn up!
Your choice.
Yahagi!
[YAHAGI groans, coughs]
[coughing continues]
It burned the weed!
Give me more!
Take it slow...
Your body won't
hold up if you rush.
[GINKO] You need to
get better gradually...
...a little bit at a time.
[GINKO]
And so...
...coughing up leaves...
...burning her insides...
...she lived to protect her
village from the unknown...
...and does so to this day.
[NAO]
Hey...
We don't see many of those
kagebi anymore, do we?
[MIKU] You think it's
'cause it's gotten warmer?
[YAHAGI]
Maybe.
But still...
We don't know where
they could be hiding.
Don't let your guard down.
[yelps]
[gasps]
Looks like it's flying
towards the valley!
You're right...
It might be looking for
some place a little colder.
Or possibly...
it's going to hide.
And, holding its breath,
wait patiently for
winter to come again.
[NARRATOR] Next: "Eye of
Fortune, Eye of Misfortune."